Task 1 - Literature 2a. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been related with processes as cell growth, differentiation, and migration. The specific mechanisms seem to be variable, cell specific and still largely unknown. However, some lncRNA are known to act and have significant impact at different levels in transcriptional regulation.   In the article the authors develop a large dataset of lncRNA knockdown (KD) along with morphologic observation and molecular phenotyping. Their results show some examples of how such a methodology could be further implemented to discern the functional roles of specific lncRNAs. Specifically, they analyzed ZNF213-AS1 and lnc-KHDC3L-2 and their relationship with cell growth, differentiation, migration, and gene transcriptional regulation, respectively. The medical insight of the article is how such studies could shed light on the effect of lncRNA in the context of disease/health on specific tissues. For example, they tested some of their hypothesis and finding to cancer data sets and found some concordant observations even in different cell types. The potential of uncovering pathogenesis mechanisms related dysregulated lncRNAs and consequently using or regulating lncRNA as treatment strategies could be some of the most important medical insights and potential future contributions of this study. 2b. Genomic technologies used: Cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE) and Chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C). 3a. 1. The authors stablish a hypothesis around siRNA and ASO technologies having different effects due to their different mechanisms of action and the presence/action of different lncRNA in different cell compartments. However, as it is not the main question, they test very few for validation. It would be interesting to then to increment the number of tested lncRNAs with known subcellular locations and test weather KD with ASO or siRNA are more successful in concordance with their localization. Also, add more replicates, or knockout CRISPR technologies (when possible), to get more robust evidence for functional data of lncRNAs. Besides this could give a clearer road map on how to proceed when planning functional studies of lncRNAs in future experiment. 3a. 2. It would be interesting when studying lncRNAs that seem to have transcriptional effects in trans to perform for example ATACseq to assess chromatin accessibility changes in KD vs wild type and correlate with molecular phenotype changes observed, most of all in the cases when more than one ASO seem to have a concordant effect in phenotype. 3a. 3. When a putative function or regulation have been found it could also be interesting to look for the effect of an induced upregulation of the lncRNA (for example specific promotor stimulation). Complementarily, further research could look for examples of up or down regulation “naturally” occurring in the context of diseases related to the specific functions (like what they do with the cancer databases and the 2 lncRNAs).  3b. For bioinformatics analysis of ATAC-seq (3a.2.) researchers should run ATAC-seq on several successful KDs and wildtype cells for a specific lncRNA of interest with at least triplicates of each condition. Data analysis should include quality control (assess if trimming is needed depending on the selected library prep), general QC for sequencing, and assess fragment length distribution for mono, di and trinucleosome fragments (to check that the ATAC-seq worked properly). Then mapping (using for example Bowtie2 enabling dovetail mapping option, then filter poorly mapped reads, blacklisted genomic regions and PCR duplicates. After that peak calling can be done by different methods, I would use MACS3 with different parameters (standard vs hmmratac) to compare the calls and choose the best one, then assess concordance of replicates in peak calling and determine IDR peaks. After that it would be important to perform differential accessibility with edgeR (or other tools), signal visualization (deepTools and IGV, for example) and annotation to genes or transcription factor motif enrichment changes between the conditions (KD vs wildtype) using for example bedtools, ChIPSeeker, ChIPpeakAnno, and motif enrichment tools. 